---
description: >-
  Learn how to verify smart contracts within DevNets via the Tenderly Dashboard
  and using the Tenderly Hardhat plugin.
---

# Contract Verification on DevNets

Contract verification is the process of ensuring that the deployed smart contract bytecode matches its source code and has been compiled correctly.

Tenderly uses the contract source code to enhance the execution data, enabling the full potential of our Debugger and other powerful tools. We recommend that you verify your smart contracts to take full advantage of Tenderly's features.

This quick guide explains how to verify smart contracts on DevNets from the Tenderly Dashboard and via the Tenderly HardHat plugin.

**Requirements**

To verify a smart contract on DevNets, you need to provide the following:

* Smart contract source code
* Exact compiler settings you used to compile the deployed version

### How to verify contracts via Tenderly Dashboard

Follow the steps outlined below to verify smart contracts from the Tenderly Dashboard.&#x20;

#### Uploading the smart contract source code

There are several ways to upload the smart contract source code via Tenderly Dashboard:

* Upload a JSON file containing metadata generated by the compiler
* Paste the source code into the Dashboard
* Upload the source file from your machine
* Upload the entire directory with all your smart contracts (easier for contracts with imports from other files)

#### Verifying **a smart contract**

With the contract added to your Tenderly project, verify it via the Dashboard by following these steps:

1. Navigate to the **Contracts** tab in the lefthand menu.
2. Click on **Verify Contract.**
3. Find the **contract address** of a contract that’s **not verified** and paste it into the input field provided in the modal.
4. Choose between **JSON Upload** and **Contract File Upload** to verify the contract.
   * Pick **JSON Upload** to enter the JSON metadata generated by the Solidity compiler.
   * Select **Contract File upload** to paste the contract source code directly, upload a single source file, or upload the source directory when importing an entire project, like a Hardhat project.
5. Contract verification is set to **Private** by default because that contract is only available inside a single DevNet run.
6. If the file contains several contracts, pick the one you want to verify (the deployed one to the address shown in Step 2) and repeat the process for others if needed.

{% hint style="info" %}
If any contract files are missing, a notification will prompt you to add them to complete the verification process.
{% endhint %}

7. Fill in the compiler parameters, including the compiler version, optimization used (true/false), optimization count, EVM version (latest set by default), and library (one or more library name-address pairs, if required).

{% hint style="info" %}
Be sure to enter the precise compiler settings. Any mismatch will result in failure to validate.
{% endhint %}

8. Click the **Finish** button to complete the verification.

### How to verify contracts via the Tenderly HardHat plugin

Follow the steps below to verify a smart contract on DevNets using the Tenderly HardHat plugin. You’ll learn how to verify contracts via code that can be checked into source control.

#### **Setting up the environment**

To use a specific Tenderly contract verification method, you need a Hardhat project and a Tenderly API key.

1. Start with a Hardhat project and follow the guides.
2. Authenticate with Tenderly using **`tenderly login`** or by generating an API key in the Dashboard and placing it in **`~/.tenderly/config.yaml`** under **`access_key`**.

#### **Installing the Tenderly Hardhat plugin**

1.  Install the Tenderly plugin for Hardhat:

    ```
    npm install --save-dev @tenderly/hardhat-tenderly
    ```
2.  Add the following to **`.gitignore`** to exclude the **`deployments`** directory from version control:

    ```
    # hardhat-tenderly plugin
    deployments
    ```
3. In **`hardhat.config.js`**, import the Tenderly Hardhat library and initialize the plugin by calling **`setup()`**.

```
import * as tdly from "@tenderly/hardhat-tenderly";
tdly.setup();
```

If you prefer manual verification, disable automatic verification with the `automaticVerifications: false` argument:

```
tdly.setup({ automaticVerifications: false });
```

#### **Verifying a smart contract**

**Automatic verification:** By default, the plugin automatically verifies contracts after deployment. You don't need to take any additional steps.

**Simple manual verification:** To call the verification explicitly, use **`tenderly.verify()`**. You need to pass a minimal configuration object that includes the contract name and address.
